# EXCHANGE OFFICE

#### Description:
My project is a simulation of a currency exchange. It basically converts three types of currencies into each other. The project has a total of five forms and 4 classes in the main project of the solution and another three classes in the User Control library I have associated. The Main Form has three buttons - 1. Make a transaction, 2. Check previous transactions, 3. Check currency exchange rates. Let's start with the first one - After clicking "Make a transaction" then NewTransactionForm is opened and the user is able to input an initial amount inside the textbox, choose two types of currency (from&to) (for now just three currencies). I have done all the validations needed so the user can't trigger an exception (ex. Can't hit convert without an initial sum, can't convert a currency to the same currency, can't repeat conversion). Now going to the second one: clicking the "Check Previous Transactions" button a new form is opened - "PreviousTransactionsForm". In this form the user can see all his previous transaction in details -> Initial Sum, Final Sum, From Currency, To Currency and the Exchange Rate (which has details of its own - Type of conversion, the exchange rate, the day when last checked). All of this data can be serialized and deserealized from/to Binary, XML, JSON. I have implemented also CSV export and import functions. Every transaction made is automatically inserted into a .db file. The user can delete previous transactions and of course they are deleted from the .db file as well. Finally the user can import data from a .db file as well. The last button "Check Exchange Rates" opens the "ExchangeRatesForm". In this form the user can view the current currency rates. In the way that I implemented it, it only show the exchange rates between foreign currencies and my national currency. I have added here five buttons to change the view to Details, Tile, List, Small Icon, Large Icon. I have added a status box for each one of the buttons - its purpose is to show hints in the lower left part of the app. The user can delete any currency he is not interested in either by clicking the Big Red delete button, either via the context menu (right click). The last thing I have implemented is the button "Chart" which open the "ExchangeRatesChartForm" where by clicking update a chart will appear which an Excel-like chart with columns for each foreign currency and the values being the exchange rate between them and my national currency. The chart was done manually (and also it is not a picture, it is a dynamic chart) in the ControlLibrary project. The primary class is Transaction which contains two doubles, to objects/instances of Currency class type and one object/instance of the ExchangeRate class. Inside the Mainform I have created a binding list of transactions. Also inside the Mainform I have declared and initialized all the instances and also here I kind of web scrape two websites in order to get the exchange rates. The NewTransactionForm is the one which adds elements to the list from MainForm. The other two are looping through the lists from the MainForm and each have their own events and methods. Unfortunately I didn't create the app using the MVVM design, but I'm working on it so my future projects will have clearer code.
